---
tags: DailyNote 
---

# 2023-06-19  13:31

email from Eric

Some humble thoughts are: 

1. I like how you outlined the rationale and motivation for this study – it inspires me and I’d imaging other clinicians to consider the results carefully and draw from them what the optimal conditions are to restore binocularity. 
2. Please see our recent review where we re-examine what’s known about conventional and new amblyopia therapies through the lens of metaplasticity. Perhaps this could be used in the background/discussion if not informative for study design. 
3. Might we consider also examining the Novasight approach here (central blurring + contrast reduction for the fellow eye). My understanding of the model is that it is agnostic to central vs peripheral visual field, so the modeling of this approach would really be combining blur and a contrast disparity. Their technology adjusts the size and density of the artificial scotoma based on the density of amblyopia over the course of therapy. 
4. For the architecture figure, I think it makes more sense to depict a single LGN to which both retinas project. Perhaps the nodes could be made smaller and shifted so the image can be better seen in the figure? 
5. Does it make sense to add layer 4 cortical neurons as another intermediate step? It’s really layer 2/3 cortical neurons that are the first to integrate inputs from both eyes – this is the case in higher order mammals like cats and primates (not the mouse). Layer 4 cells would comprise the orientation selective step as I think you currently have. 
6. It’s hard for me to understand what each of these plots are depicting. It seems like the optical fix and patching mediate their change in ODI by reducing fellow eye responses, whereas atropine increase amblyopic eye responses – is this accurate? I’m confused by the pattern of change shown for the contrast plus mask. I would have thought that reverse amblyopia should be represented by pushing the ODI from the amblyopic state below zero as reflective of reverse amblyopia, but this seems to go away with greater contrast disparity. It’s notable that reverse amblyopia isn’t seen with dichoptic amblyopia treatment, contrary to what the model suggests. 
7. As a final experiment, perhaps through reverse modeling, are you able to generate a suggestion for optimal conditions that would restore binocular function? I think that would cap off the study well, pursuant to the objective set forth in the introduction.

## Questions/tasks 

#todo 

- [ ] what are the optimal conditions are to restore binocularity
- [ ] examining the Novasight approach here (central blurring + contrast reduction for the fellow eye)
- [ ] For the architecture figure, I think it makes more sense to depict a single LGN to which both retinas project. Perhaps the nodes could be made smaller and shifted so the image can be better seen in the figure? 



