---
tags: DailyNote 
---
It’s not as much the size of strabismus angle as the timing of onset. Children who have an eye misalignment in infancy (6 months or before more or less) commonly develop nystagmus (so called fusion maldevelopment nystagmus). While nystagmus can impact acuity itself, the effect she found of nystagmus being associated with blunted amblyopia treatment responses may reflect that the amblyopia began earlier in development and thus impacts more fundamental aspects of visual development. That’s her thinking and mine as well. 

**From:** Brian Blais <[bblais@bryant.edu](mailto:bblais@bryant.edu)>  
**Date:** Friday, April 26, 2024 at 9:44 AM  
**To:** Eric Gaier <[Eric.Gaier@childrens.harvard.edu](mailto:Eric.Gaier@childrens.harvard.edu)>, Endri Angjeli <[endri@luminopia.com](mailto:endri@luminopia.com)>  
**Cc:** Shelley Hancock <[shelley@luminopia.com](mailto:shelley@luminopia.com)>  
**Subject:** Re: (WARNING) Re: mask question [EXTERNAL]


Very interesting.  Isn’t the nystagmus observation modified by the correlation between strabismus and nystagmus?   I can separate them in simulation but I thought that those with larger nystagmus also tend to have larger strabismus?  I’m traveling right now and going into finals but will be looking at this again soon.  

Brian

Brian Blais

---

**From:** Gaier, Eric <[Eric.Gaier@childrens.harvard.edu](mailto:Eric.Gaier@childrens.harvard.edu)>  
**Sent:** Wednesday, April 24, 2024 11:57:34 AM  
**To:** Brian Blais <[bblais@bryant.edu](mailto:bblais@bryant.edu)>; Endri Angjeli <[endri@luminopia.com](mailto:endri@luminopia.com)>  
**Cc:** Shelley Hancock <[shelley@luminopia.com](mailto:shelley@luminopia.com)>  
**Subject:** RE: (WARNING) Re: mask question [EXTERNAL]

Hi Brian, 

Hope all is well. 

I wanted to touch base with you on this project as I’ve been thinking about it more and have a couple things to share.

At AAPOS Eileen Birch was asking about the Luminopia masks and the degree to which there is overlap between images from each eye in the transition zones between masks. I went to the Luminopia booth and just put on the headset and I was pleased to see that there seems to be a fairly wide degree of the visual field that is presented to both eyes (with the relative contrast disparity). I’d estimate that this overlapped region was 50-100% of that which is completely obscured by the mask. I thought I’d offer this observation for clarity as you build the model. 

Second, Fatema Ghasia is our visiting professor today and she spoke on fixational eye movements and instability in amblyopia. It seems that those with nystagmus associated with amblyopia have poorer recovery with treatment, and this may reflect that fixation instability is a barrier to recovery. I know you had worked in some jitter into the model and it didn’t have much effect on recovery. I think this is an important result, because fixation instability cannot be dissociated from amblyopia in real life like you can do. The negative effect supports that fixation instability is a marker of disease severity (maybe stemming from timing of amblyopic driver onset – i.e. developing strabismus at age 6 months vs 3 years). Fatema said that is how she is thinking about this, so I think that fits well with your result. 

Anyway, I’m still very keen that this project be submitted for AAPOS in 2025. 

Best,

Eric
# 2024-05-01  11:23


## Questions/tasks 


