# Conclusions and Discussion

While the results of this work are promising, there are a number of limitations.  This model is a single-neuron model which means it doesn't take into account any network effects, such as the balance of excitatory and inhibitory influences.  It also is an early-vision model, so it does not include any object recognition, higher-order vision processes or memory processes that may be involved with amblyopia.  We measure ocular dominance for convenience because spatial frequency, which would be a more natural quantity to use for amblyopia, is to noisy for a model with 19x19 input patches.  Finally, this is not a biophysical model, so neuron spike-effects are not covered.  

However, the model does allow one to run many different scenarios with as few assumptions as possible.  It can capture the dynamics of the learning in the visual system in these scenarios, and allows us to explore the benefits and drawbacks of different treatment paradigms.  

Given that both the contrast of the fellow eye and the dichoptic mask influence the rate of recovery,  one could modify the mask or the contrast to reduce the chance of reverse amblyopia.  One would want frequent measurements of the inter-eye imbalance to recognize when such a change is warranted.


### Some lingering questions

Here are just a couple of things I noticed, that I need to look into to see if there are any issues.

- [ ] I would have expected a reverse amblyopia effect with the patch treatment, but I don't see that.   It might be washed out in the variation at high noise level, but I want to be sure
- [ ] I would have expected that in the dichoptic treatment, that the case of contrast=1 with no mask would be identical to the optical fix at an open-eye noise level of 0.1.  I don't see that, so I am not sure what the difference is
- [ ] I think it would be useful to run a couple of these cases for more systematic changes in the jitter mean and standard deviation.  There wasn't much of an effect, but it is there in places and it would be easier to communicate this with a few examples


